@node Configuration Reference, Credits, Platform Notes, Top
@chapter Configuration Reference
@cindex configuration, variable reference

This chapter describes the configuration variables available in Flipper.

For more general information on how the configuration system works, @xref{Configuration}.

Variables are either compulsory or optional.  They are either relevant to nodes or masterpairs only, or specific to the level at which they are defined.

@menu
* ip configuration variable::   
* write_ip configuration variable::  
* read_ip configuration variable::  
* netmask configuration variable::  
* broadcast configuration variable::  
* path_to_ifconfig configuration variable::  
* ssh_ip configuration variable::  
* ssh_user configuration variable::  
* use_sudo configuration variable::  
* mysql_user configuration variable::  
* mysql_password configuration variable::  
* mysql_port configuration variable::  
* interface configuration variable::  
* read_interface configuration variable::  
* write_interface configuration variable::  
* send_arp_command configuration variable::  
@end menu

@node ip configuration variable, write_ip configuration variable, Configuration Reference, Configuration Reference
@section ip
@vindex ip

Applicable to nodes only.  Compulsory - each node must have an @var{ip} variable defined.

Specifies the IP address of each node.  Flipper will use this IP address to connect to MySQL on the node.

@node write_ip configuration variable, read_ip configuration variable, ip configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section write_ip
@vindex write_ip

Applicable to masterpairs only.  Compulsory - each masterpair must have a @var{write_ip} variable defined.

This is the IP address which will be used for write access to MySQL.

@node read_ip configuration variable, netmask configuration variable, write_ip configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section read_ip
@vindex read_ip

Applicable to masterpairs only.  Compulsory - each masterpair must have a @var{read_ip} variable defined.

This is the IP address which will be used for read access to MySQL.

@node netmask configuration variable, broadcast configuration variable, read_ip configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section netmask
@vindex netmask

Applicable to masterpairs only.  Compulsory - each masterpair must have a @var{netmask} variable defined.

This is the netmask for the read_ip and write_ip.  It's normally the same as the netmask for the nodes' main IPs, but doesn't necessarily have to be the same.

@node broadcast configuration variable, path_to_ifconfig configuration variable, netmask configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section broadcast
@vindex broadcast

Applicable to masterpairs only.  Optional.

This is the broadcast address for the network for the read_ip and write_ip.  Not needed for normal use but may be required for sending ARP messages.

@node path_to_ifconfig configuration variable, ssh_ip configuration variable, broadcast configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section path_to_ifconfig
@vindex path_to_ifconfig

Specific to node or masterpair, whereever defined.  Optional.  Defaults to @file{/sbin}.

If the ifconfig command doesn't exist in @file{/sbin}, for example on FreeBSD where it is in @file{/usr/sbin}, specify this variable to point Flipper to the correct location.

@node ssh_ip configuration variable, ssh_user configuration variable, path_to_ifconfig configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section ssh_ip
@vindex ssh_ip

Applicable to nodes only.  Optional.

If ssh is bound to a different IP address than MySQL on a node, define a @var{ssh_ip} variable for that node, and Flipper will use that IP address for ssh rather than the one specified by the @var{ip} variable.

@node ssh_user configuration variable, use_sudo configuration variable, ssh_ip configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section ssh_user
@vindex ssh_user

Specific to node or masterpair, whereever defined.  Optional.  Defaults to @code{root}.

This specifies the user which will Flipper will use to ssh to the nodes.  If you don't want it to use the @code{root} user, then specify this variable.

@node use_sudo configuration variable, mysql_user configuration variable, ssh_user configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section use_sudo
@vindex use_sudo

Specific to node or masterpair, whereever defined.  Optional.  Defaults to 0, which means "no".

If set to 1, Flipper will use sudo for privilege escalation when carrying out operations on nodes (such as bringing up and taking down IP aliases) which require superuser privileges.

@node mysql_user configuration variable, mysql_password configuration variable, use_sudo configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section mysql_user
@vindex mysql_user

Specific to node or masterpair, whereever defined.  Optional.  Defaults to @code{root}.

This is the user which Flipper will use to connect to MySQL on the nodes.  This is not the user which is used to connect to the metadata database - that is specified using the @code{--username} command line switch or in @file{my.cnf}.

@node mysql_password configuration variable, mysql_port configuration variable, mysql_user configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section mysql_password
@vindex mysql_password

Specific to node or masterpair, whereever defined.  Optional.  Defaults to empty string.

This is the password which Flipper will use to connect to MySQL on the nodes.  This is not the user which is used to connect to the metadata database - that is specified using the @code{--password} command line switch or in @file{my.cnf}.

@node mysql_port configuration variable, interface configuration variable, mysql_password configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section mysql_port
@vindex mysql_port

Specific to node or masterpair, whereever defined.  Optional.  Defaults to 3306.

If MySQL on the nodes runs on a non-standard port, use this variable to specify the port number.

@node interface configuration variable, read_interface configuration variable, mysql_port configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section interface
@vindex interface

Specific to node or masterpair, whereever defined.  Potentially compulsory.  No default value.

This variable specifies the interface to be used for the read and write IP addresses which are controlled by Flipper on the nodes.

If no value is configured and there's only a single interface on a node, that single interface will be used.

If no value is configured and multiple interfaces exist on a node, the interface must be specified.

@node read_interface configuration variable, write_interface configuration variable, interface configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section read_interface
@vindex read_interface

Specific to node or masterpair, whereever defined.  Optional.  Defaults to an automatically assigned interface.

The exact interface to bring up the @code{read_ip} on, for example @code{eth0:98}.

@node write_interface configuration variable, send_arp_command configuration variable, read_interface configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section write_interface
@vindex write_interface

Specific to node or masterpair, whereever defined.  Optional.  Defaults to an automatically assigned interface.

The exact interface to bring up the @code{write_ip} on, for example @code{eth0:99}.

@node send_arp_command configuration variable,  , write_interface configuration variable, Configuration Reference
@section send_arp_command
@vindex send_arp_command

Specific to node or masterpair, whereever defined.  Optional.  No default value.

Specifies the command which will be used to send ARP messages when an IP address is brought up on a node.

The following variables will be interpolated into the command:

@itemize @bullet
@item
@var{$sendarp_ip} - the IP address which is being brought up
@item
@var{$sendarp_netmask} - the netmask
@item
@var{$sendarp_broadcast} - the broadcast address of the network (only available if the @ref{broadcast configuration variable} variable has been specified)
@item
@var{$sendarp_interface} - the physical interface on which the IP address has been brought up
@end itemize
