\input texinfo @c -*- texinfo -*-
@setfilename flipper.texi
@settitle Flipper Manual
@set language en

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2007-2008 Proven Scaling LLC and Proven Scaling Ltd.
@end copying

@setchapternewpage on
@paragraphindent 0

@syncodeindex fn cp
@syncodeindex pg cp

@c These are for HTML output only.  We should tune them.
@set _body_tags bgcolor=white text=#000000 link=#101090 vlink=#7030B0
@set _extra_head <style> code {color:purple} tt {color:green} samp {color:navy} pre {color:maroon} </style> 

@c When we're happy with it, uncomment to remove the black boxes on the
@c right hand side of the screen.  These show up because an hbox is being
@c exceeded.  We should fix all of these before setting @finalout.
@c @finalout

@titlepage
@title Flipper
@subtitle A system for managing MySQL replicating master-master pairs
@author Proven Scaling - www.provenscaling.com

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Written by Mike Griffiths and Jeremy Cole.
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@node Top, Overview, (dir), (dir)

@ifhtml
Flipper is a tool for managing pairs of MySQL servers replicating in a master-master configuration.
@end ifhtml

@menu
* Overview::                    
* Quick Start::                 
* Installation::                
* Configuration::               
* Usage::                       
* Applications and Flipper::    
* Bugs::                        
* Future Developments::         
* Platform Notes::              
* Configuration Reference::     
* Credits::                     
* Contacting Proven Scaling::   
* Variable Index::              
* Concept Index::               
@end menu

@c Any file you add or change here, you should also fix in the list
@c in Makefile so that the dependencies will be correct for "make".

@include flipper-overview.texi
@include flipper-quickstart.texi
@include flipper-installation.texi
@include flipper-configuration.texi
@include flipper-usage.texi
@include flipper-applications.texi
@include flipper-bugs.texi
@include flipper-future.texi
@include flipper-platform.texi
@include flipper-configuration-reference.texi
@include flipper-credits.texi
@include flipper-contact.texi
@include flipper-index-vr.texi
@include flipper-index-cp.texi

@bye
